Welcome to the class once again.
I'm Andrew Meade and I'm excited to show you everything that no JSA can do.
When I first started teaching node on udemy over five years ago node was already a super popular choice
for new developers and that hasn't changed in the last five years.
New features and functionality have been added to node making it more popular and mature as a tool being
used by professional developers everywhere.
Now in this class you are going to learn everything you need to become a professional node j s developer.
But before we get to that in this video there are three important things I want to cover.
First up we're going to talk about the course curriculum.
We'll figure out how we're going to get from where we are now to where we want to be which is a professional
no developer.
Second up we're going to talk about how you can get the most out of the class and the most out of our
time together.
And third we'll talk about how you can get help if you need it.
All right let's jump right in and talk about the course curriculum
this course is broken into four major parts and in each part you'll end up building a complete no J.S.
application from scratch.
So in part 1 you're going to build a note taking application in part two you'll build a weather application
in Part 3.
You'll build a task manager app.
And finally in Part 4 you'll build a real time chat app.
Now as we explore new features of no JSA and the eco system we're gonna be integrating everything we
learn into one of those four projects.
The goal here is not to explore no J.S. features in isolation.
The goal is to figure out how we can use all of these features together to create interesting and meaningful
applications.
So let's take a quick moment to break down the four apps we're going to build the first app.
The note taking application is how we're gonna get started.
So this one is going to be pretty basic as we explore the fundamentals we have to figure out how we
can do things like create our first node app use basic features from node and run the application for
the first time.
Now along the way we'll explore features from node like the ability to read and write from the file
system and we'll start to explore our very first third party no J.S. libraries.
That brings us to part two in part two.
You're building the weather app and that's a web application so the user is going to be able to use
and interact with your app from their browser.
Now to build this one we have to explore a lot of interesting topics like how we can create web servers
with no J.S. how we can build out our own node API eyes how we can launch our applications to a production
server and how our apps can communicate with third party services such as a third party service that
allows us to fetch real time weather data for a given location.
Now that brings us to the third app and the third app is the biggest of all.
This is the task manager app the task manager app has all of the real world features you'd expect you'll
learn how to setup authentication with an email and password.
You'll learn how to setup database data storage with Mongo D.B. into the very popular Mongoose library.
We'll also explore other topics like file uploads email sending and more.
Now that brings us to the fourth part in Part 4.
You're going to build that real time chat app here.
We'll explore how we can use socket I O and web sockets to create real time no JSA applications.
The goal of the course is to give you the tools and real world experience needed so you can go off and
build useful and interesting applications.
Once the class is over.
So now you know what you're getting yourself into.
And we're going to move on to Part 2 of this video where we're going to explore how you can get the
most out of the class
this course was designed to be completely interactive so to get the most value out of the class you
need to interact with it.
Everything that I do on my machine is something that you should be doing on your machine as well.
So as we explore a new feature of node we'll be writing some code together.
We'll talk about what the feature is and how it works.
Then we'll run our program to see it in action.
This is something that you should also be doing on your machine.
Now this is a little bit of monkey see monkey do behavior where you're just following along but that's
ok.
It's actually essential for exploring new features and figuring out how they work.
Now when it comes to building up your problem solving experience this monkey see monkey do approach
no longer works.
That's why I've included over one hundred unique challenges requiring you to solve problems on your
own using what you've learned in the class.
So I'll set you up with a problem.
I'll give you some time to go off and solve it.
Then we'll come back together and work through a potential solution.
So both of these things are essential.
Follow along with what I'm doing on my machine and give these challenges an honest try.
If you do both of those things you're going to get to the end of the class.
You'll have the tools and real world experience necessary to go off and build note applications on your
own.
All right let's jump into Part 3 of this video which is the final part where we're going to talk about
how you can get help if you need to
we're about to spend a lot of time together learning something new and it's likely that at some point
along the way you're going to need a little help.
Maybe you're running the application locally on your machine but when you run it you get a different
result than what you're seeing me get in the video.
Or maybe you run your app and it completely crashes printing some sort of long cryptic error message
regardless of what's going wrong.
Of course a Q and A is where you can go to get help you can find a link to the Q and A below the video
player for each and every lesson there you can browse previously asked and answered questions and you
can likely find a solution to your problem right away.
If not you can always crack open a new question in the Q and A.
All I ask is that you provide as much information as possible so if you're running into a problem running
your project zip up your project code and include that with the question if you're getting some sort
of error message.
Take a screenshot and upload that with your question.
The more information the better that's going to allow us to get you unstuck and back on track faster.
Now don't worry.
Throughout the course I am going to teach you how to debug your own applications and how to read those
cryptic error messages.
But the course Q and A is always there if you need it.
All right that's it for this video.
Let's continue on with the rest of the class.